---
title: 'Solutions to the 42nd Korean University Students Contest of Mathematics'
date: 2025-10-02
layout: single
author_profile: true
math: true
permalink: /42nd-kucm-2024-solutions/
tags:
  - problem-solving
  - Korean University Students Contest of Mathematics
  - 대학생수학경시대회
---
\require{physics}
## Division 1 (Majors in Mathematics & Related Fields)

**Problem 1.**
- Problem Statement
    For the following matrix $A$, find the real numbers $a$, $b$, and $c$ such that the equation $A^5 = aA^2 + bA + cI$ holds. (Here, $I$ is the $3 \times 3$ identity matrix).
    $$
      \mqty(
        0 & 1 & 1 \\
        -1 & 0 & 1 \\
        -1 & -1 & 0
      )
    $$

- Solution

**Problem 2.**
- Problem Statement
    In $3$-dimensional coordinate space, let $S$ be the surface given by the equation $4z^2 = x^2 + y^2 - 1$.
    Show that the surface $S$ contains exactly two lines that pass through the point $P \qty(1, 2, 1)$, and find the value of $\cos \theta$, where $\theta$ is the acute angle between these two lines.

- Solution

**Problem 3.**
- Problem Statement
    Find the real number $N$ that satisfies the following equation:
    
    $$
      \sum_{k=1}^{2024} \qty(2025-k) \cdot 2024^k \cdot 2025^{2024-k} = 2024^N
    $$

- Solution

**Problem 4.**
- Problem Statement
    Find the tesn digit and the units digit of $37^{2024}$, respectively.

- Solution

**Problem 5.**
- Problem Statement
    Let $f \qty(x)$ be a real-valued function defined on the set of all real numbers. $f \qty(x)$ is twice differentiable, and $f'' \qty(x)$ is contiuous.
    For all $x$, $f' \qty(x) > 0$ and $f'' \qty(x) < 0$.
    Prove that for any positive number $t$, the following inequality holds:
    
    $$
      \int_0^t \cos \qty(f \qty(x)) \dd x \leq \frac{2}{f' \qty(t)}
    $$

- Solution

**Problem 6.**
- Problem Statement
For $n$ real numbers $a_1$, $a_2$, \dots, $a_n$ that satisfy the two conditions below, find the maximum value of the expression $\qty(\sum_{k=1}^{n-1} a_k a_{k+1}) + a_n a_1$. (Assume $n \geq 3$).

$$
  a_1 + a_2 + \cdots + a_n = 0, \quad a_1^2 + a_2^2 + \cdots + a_n^2 = 1
$$

- Solution

**Problem 7.**
- Problem Statement
Let $\mathcal{D}$ be a finite, closed, convex region in the $2$D coordinate plane, and let its boundary $\beta$ satisfy the following conditions:
  (1) $\beta$ is a smooth, simple closed curve.
  (2) For any point $O$ on $\beta$, the circle of radius $1$ centered at $O$ intersects $\beta$ at exactly two points.
  (3) For any point $O$ on $\beta$, the tangent line drawn at $O$ does not intersect $\beta$ at any other point besides $O$.
Let $M$ be the midpoint of a rod $PQ$ of length $1$.
As the rod is moved such that its endpoints $P$ and $Q$ always lie on $\beta$ for one full revolution (i.e., $P$ and $Q$ move continuously along $\beta$ for one lap), the locus of $M$ forms a simple closed curve, which we call $\gamma$.
Show that the area of the region between the curves $\beta$ and $\gamma$ is $\frac{pi}{4}$. 

- Solution

## Division 2 (General University Students)
